Update core docs overview page - Closes  #1559 (#1646)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc

.Migration process overview
image::migration-v3-v4.png[align=center]

In Figure 1 above, the blocks in pink are generated by the Lisk Core v3 nodes, including the state snapshot.
The snapshot block is shown in green, and is generated by the xref:{url_lisk_migrator}[migrator tool].
Finally, the blocks in yellow are generated by the Lisk Core v4 nodes post migration.

=== Modules

Within Lisk Core v4, the following modules will be registered and used in the specified order:

* Auth
- The {url_lip41}[Auth module^] is responsible for handling and verifying nonces and for transaction signature validation, including transactions from multisignature accounts.
* Validators
- The {url_lip44}[Validators module^] is responsible for validating the eligibility of a validator for generating a block and the block signature.
Furthermore, it maintains information about the registered validators in its module store and provides the generator list.
* Token
- This module allows any chain in the ecosystem to handle and transfer tokens in a coherent, secure, and controlled manner.

> Furthermore, the {url_lip51}[token module^] also handles cross-chain token transfers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, the {url_lip51}[Token module^] also handles cross-chain token transfers.
```

// Entries of the state store are inserted in a sparse Merkle tree, the state tree.
// The whole state is thus authenticated by the tree Merkle root, the state root.
// More details can found here in xref:{url_lip40}[LIP 0040].
Furthermore, As a part of the interoperability solution, validators of each chain certify the current state of the chain.
The certification is performed by using certificates that are signed once the block is finalized and used in cross-chain communication.
In addition, the new certificate generation mechanism verifies all the required information for the cross-chain updates, including the state root, which allows the authentication of cross-chain messages, and the validators hash, which authenticates the validators changes, and therefore the signers of future certificates.
// Maybe need info to add in overview description of changed schemas for better user experience (changing type of most IDs to bytes, etc.).
// Also maybe need info on added events and event processing..?

Finally, a new event mechanism has been introduced designed to emit events from the application domain during the block processing.

> These events are included in a sparse Merkle tree, as leaf nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These events are included in a sparse Merkle tree (SMT), as leaf nodes.
```

Hence, the root of the SMT being the event root, is added as a new property to block headers.
Using the event root, it is possible to provide inclusion or non-inclusion proofs for events, proving whether an event was emitted during the block processing.

==== Module State Store

Within the chain each module that is registered defines its own state and the possible state transitions.

> For example, this could be the transactions defined within the module or the methods that can be called by other modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The state transitions could be induced by the transactions defined within the module or the methods that can be called by other modules.
```

IMPORTANT: To access the latest Lisk Core version, please xref:master@{page-component-name}::{page-relative}[click here].
endif::[]

== Overview

The Lisk Core can be defined as a blockchain application running on the Lisk Mainnet that implements the Lisk protocol, enabling a user to easily set up a node and participate in the network.
To provide a high level overview, the main functionalities are listed below:

* The possibility to connect to a subset of peers in the Lisk mainchain's P2P network.
* To synchronize with the Lisk blockchain including requesting, forwarding and processing of the blocks, which also contain the transactions.
// => Lisk Core node stores all current account balances and transactions
* To maintain the transaction pool, which contains a set of unconfirmed transactions.

> * To request and forward the unconfirmed transactions.

Author: It was just meant to be part of a basic list of one-line statements designed to give a high-level overview of the main functionalities of the Core, in this case, related to the transaction pool.
(See Manu's presentation "Essentials about Lisk" 
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1FCaIw10ZvdM3HembUJlC_mJ5td1KQmiElIzBfmQNnQE/edit#slide=id.gfa91be6131_0_198 )

* To possibly generate new blocks when running a delegate node.

> Furthermore, Lisk Core nodes are able to store all current account balances and transactions.

Author: Yes, that is a good point...
How about the following: "Furthermore, Lisk Core nodes are able to store all current addresses, balances, and transactions." ?

With the latest version of Lisk Core, there will be new configurable settings and the following modules described in the <<Modules>> sub-section will also be used.

NOTE: To migrate from Lisk Core v3 to v4 please follow the migration process as covered in the xref:{migration}[migration guide].

> For the Lisk Migrator, Node.js v16 LTS is installed globally.

Author: OK, now done. 👍

==== Migration overview

The Lisk SDK v6 has introduced some new configurable settings, including certain constants that need to be specified for each chain, which must also be specified in Lisk Core v4.
A brief overview of the migration process from Lisk Core v3 to Lisk Core v4 is depicted graphically in the illustration below in Figure 1.

> .Migration process overview

Author: Ah, as we discussed yesterday, we do have a separate page that will just describe how to perform the migration, and we have a link to this page above in the note in line 72.
"NOTE: To migrate from Lisk Core v3 to v4 please follow the migration process as covered in the xref:{migration}[migration guide].''
There is a separate GH issue for rebuilding this page for the migration from v3 to v4.

image::migration-v3-v4.png[align=center]

> In Figure 1 above, the elements in pink are generated by the Lisk Core v3 nodes, including the state snapshot.
> The snapshot block is shown in green, and is generated by the xref:{url_lisk_migrator}[migrator tool].
> Finally, the elements in yellow are generated by the Lisk Core v4 nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Figure 1 above, the blocks in pink are generated by the Lisk Core v3 nodes, including the state snapshot.
The snapshot block is shown in green, and is generated by the xref:{url_lisk_migrator}[migrator tool].
Finally, the blocks in yellow are generated by the Lisk Core v4 nodes post the migration.
```

Each block is then validated, and assuming the validation step passes, the block and its transactions are continued in the database.
- (b) The following steps 4 and 5 below can be skipped.
4. Fetch all blocks between heights `HEIGHT_PREVIOUS_SNAPSHOT_BLOCK + 1` and `HEIGHT_SNAPSHOT` (inclusive) via peer-to-peer network from highest to lowest height.
Each block is validated using minimal validation steps.
If the validation passes, the block along with its transactions is continued in the database.
5. The snapshot block for the height `HEIGHT_PREVIOUS_SNAPSHOT_BLOCK` is downloaded from a server.
The URL for the source can be configured.
When downloaded, it is validated using minimal validation steps.
If this validation step passes, the block is continued in the database.
The steps 3 to 5 from above could run in the background with low priority.

NOTE: Note that due to step 1.(a) above, it is a requirement to run Lisk Core v3 and the migrator tool before running Lisk Core v4.
However, it may occur that nodes starting some time after the migration, may fetch the snapshot block and its preceding blocks without running Lisk Core v3 and the xref:{url_lisk_migrator}[Lisk migrator tool].

> 

Reviewer: In general, I think we should only provide a brief overview of the upcoming migration and the benefits (improved state store architecture, blockchain events, protocol updates such as dynamic rewards and reward sharing etc) it has to offer, in a small paragraph. All the details can be part of a separate page or can be omitted altogether but we must refer the readers to the above cited LIPs for more information.

Author: OK, well perhaps we could use this content in the actual migration guide page then...? 
I can try to just give a brief overview then of the state store, (although the state store and the architecture are described below). Maybe I can try to trim it down somewhat.. 
I will have to add in blockchain events, and protocol updates...OK, then I will also refer to the LIPS as well.

Organizing the state of a blockchain in a Merkle tree allows to cryptographically authenticate the whole state with a single hash, the state root.
The state root property is calculated at the end of the block processing as the Merkle root of the state tree and included in the block header.
Information from the block header is then used to create a certificate and signed by the chain validators.

The following constants for the module store have been defined and are shown below:

[cols="2,1,2,4"]
|===
|*Name*|*Type*|*Value*|*Description*
|`STORE_PREFIX_LENGTH`|uint32|4|Length in bytes of a store prefix.
|`SUBSTORE_PREFIX_LENGTH`|uint32|2|Length in bytes of a substore prefix.

|===

The illustration below in Figure 2 depicts the general structure of the state sparse Merkle tree for a Lisk blockchain using two application-specific modules.
The state root is the Merkle root, and as described above each module defines its own module store.
he keys of the leaf nodes start with the store prefixes, so that each module subtree is separated from the others. Please note, not all modules are shown in this illustration.

.State sparse Merkle tree

> image::state_tree.png[align=center]

Reviewer: Same as above.

Author: I have trimmed it down somewhat now (removed the constants, etc.), so it is a bit more high-level.

IMPORTANT: To access the latest Lisk Core version, please xref:master@{page-component-name}::{page-relative}[click here].
endif::[]

== Overview

The Lisk core can be defined as a blockchain application running on the Lisk Mainnet that implements the Lisk protocol, enabling a user to easily set up a node.
To provide a high level overview, the main functionalities are listed below:

* The possibility to connect to subset of peers in the network (P2P network).
* To synchronize with Lisk blockchain including requesting, forwarding and processing blocks, together with transactions.
// => Lisk Core node stores all current account balances and transactions
* To maintain the transaction pool.
* To request and forward unconfirmed transactions.
* To maintain a set of unconfirmed transactions.
* To generate new blocks (only delegate nodes).

Furthermore, Lisk Core nodes are able to store all current account balances and transactions.

With the latest version of Lisk Core, there will be new configurable settings and the following modules listed below in the next sub section will also be used.

> NOTE: To migrate from Lisk Core V3 to V4 please follow the migration process as covered in the xref:{migration}[migration guide].

Reviewer: The `xref` seems to be broken but works from under the Table of Contents.

==== Migration overview

> The Lisk SDK v6 has introduced some new configurable settings, including certain constants that need to be specified for each chain, which must also be specified in Lisk Core v4.

Reviewer: I think the description here must be about the new underlying state-store with reference to LIP-0040 and the motivation for/advantages the migration has to offer. It would also be nice to refer the migration LIP (LIP-0063) and the lisk-migrator repo here.
```suggestion
The Lisk SDK v6 has introduced some new configurable settings, including certain constants that need to be specified for each chain, which must also be specified in Lisk Core v4.
```

> A brief overview of the migration process from Lisk Core v3 to Lisk Core v4 is depicted graphically in the illustration below in figure 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A brief overview of the migration process from Lisk Core v3 to Lisk Core v4 is depicted graphically in the illustration below in Figure 1.
```

image::migration-v3-v4.png[align=center]

> Figure:1
> 
> In figure 1 above, the elements in violet are created by Lisk Core v3, inclding the state snapshot.

Reviewer: Would it be more sensible to use `blocks` instead of elements within the text and replace `created` with `generated` to be consistent with the protocol/specifications?

```suggestion
Figure: 1

In Figure 1 above, the blocks in violet are generated by the Lisk Core v3 nodes, including the state snapshot.
```

> The snapshot block element is shown in green, and is created by the migrator tool.
> Finally, the elements in yellow are created by Lisk Core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The snapshot block is shown in green, and is generated by the migrator tool.
Finally, the blocks in yellow are generated by the Lisk Core v4 nodes.
```

=== Modules

Within the Lisk Core v4, the following modules will be used:

* DPoS

> - xref:{dpos}[DPoS] (delegated proof-of-stake), module is responsible for handling delegate registration, votes, and computing the delegate weight.

Reviewer: There recently was a cross-department agreement on the terminology updates and the same could be found here: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1lfOiBytQwj9J_cQ7IS_H08g_nZJLwX9o27k0SZoyMGs

> - xref:{dpos}[DPoS] (delegated proof-of-stake), module is responsible for handling delegate registration, votes, and computing the delegate weight.

Author: OK many thanks, Sameer! I have spoken with Sergey from Research, and he has recommended we change it from DPoS to PoS, which I have now done 👍

* Auth
- The Auth module is responsible for handling and verifying nonces and for transaction signature validation, including transactions from multisignature accounts.
* BFT

> - The xref:{bft}[BFT] module is responsible for maintaining the consensus participants, their BFT weights, and all information related to the consensus votes that have been cast as part of the block headers.

Author: The BFT module has now been removed as I understand it will not be a separate module, instead, it will become a part of the engine in the upcoming engine/application separation.

* Validators
- The Validators module is responsible for validating the eligibility of a validator for generating a block and the block signature.
Furthermore, it maintains information about the registered validators in its module store and provides the generator list.
* Random
- The Random module handles the validation of the inputs and computation of outputs for the commit and reveal process for a Lisk blockchain.
Hence, it manages the validation of the inputs for the commit and reveal process, as well as the computation of the random seeds from this process.
// Info on Random process in LIP 0022
* Fee

> - The Fee module is responsible for handling the fee of transactions.
> It allows chains to choose the token used to pay the fee, and to define a minimum fee for transactions to be valid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Fee module is responsible for the handling of the transaction fees.
It allows chains to choose the token used to pay the fee, and to define a minimum fee for the transactions to be valid.
```

* Interoperability

> - The Interoperability module provides basic functionalities to transmit information between interoperable chains in the Lisk ecosystem using xref:{cross_chain}[cross-chain messages].

Reviewer: The `xref` seems to be broken.

Author: It should work now.

.Migration process overview
image::migration-v3-v4.png[align=center]

In Figure 1 above, the blocks in pink are generated by the Lisk Core v3 nodes, including the state snapshot.
The snapshot block is shown in green, and is generated by the xref:{url_lisk_migrator}[migrator tool].
Finally, the blocks in yellow are generated by the Lisk Core v4 nodes post migration.

=== Modules

Within Lisk Core v4, the following modules will be used:

* PoS
- xref:{url_pos}[PoS] (Proof-of-stake), module is responsible for handling delegate registration, votes, and computing the delegate weight.
* Auth
- The Auth module is responsible for handling and verifying nonces and for transaction signature validation, including transactions from multisignature accounts.

* Validators
- The Validators module is responsible for validating the eligibility of a validator for generating a block and the block signature.
Furthermore, it maintains information about the registered validators in its module store and provides the generator list.
* Random
- The Random module handles the validation of the inputs and computation of outputs for the commit and reveal process for a Lisk blockchain.

> Hence, it manages the validation of the inputs for the commit and reveal process, as well as the computation of the random seeds from this process.

Author: Many thanks, Sergey! Yes, I hope it will be a very helpful page.
OK, I have reworded the above statement slightly, to include your points regarding the random seeds 👍

// Info on Random process in LIP 0022
* Fee

> - The Fee module is responsible for the handling of the transaction fees.

Author: Many thanks...Have now added this in 👍

It allows chains to choose the token used to pay the fee, and to define a minimum fee for the transactions to be valid.
* Interoperability

> - The Interoperability module provides basic functionalities to transmit information between interoperable chains in the Lisk ecosystem using xref:{url_cross_chain}[cross-chain messages].

Author: Done 👍

* Token

> - This module allows any chain in the ecosystem to handle and transfer tokens in a coherent, secure, and controlled manner.

Author: Done 👍

> It is composed of a state store definition used to store tokens in the state.

Author: Done 👍

* Legacy
- The Legacy module maintains all accounts on the Lisk mainchain that received balance transfers to their address in the old 8-byte format, and for which no public key is associated.
The Legacy module also implements a command allowing delegates without a BLS key to register one.
* Dynamic Block Rewards Module
- The Dynamic Block Rewards module is responsible for providing the base reward system for the Lisk blockchain according to the delegate weight.

> It computes the block rewards according to the delegate weight for active delegates, and induces specific logic after the application of a block.

Author: Good point...done 👍

More details on this can be found here in xref:{url_lip_xx}[LIP 00XX].

> Within the protocol used by Lisk Core v4, each validator needs a generator key in order to generate blocks.

Author: Thanks...now done 👍

Moreover, the PoS module expects that each validator account has such a key specified in the snapshot block.
More information on the generator key can be found here in xref:{url_lip44}[LIP 0044].

The state of an interoperable chain in the Lisk ecosystem is maintained in a global state store.
Entries of the state store are inserted in a sparse Merkle tree, the state tree.

> The whole state is thus authenticated by the tree Merkle root, the state root.

Author: Many thanks. I have now added this in, together with some additional content 👍

More details can found here in xref:{url_lip40}[LIP 0040].

> // Need info to add in overview description of changed schemas for better user experience (changing type of most IDs to bytes, etc.).

Reviewer 2: Thinking about it again, this topic is relatively minor and should be mentioned somewhere else, e.g. complete list of protocol changes.

Author: OK, I have removed them 👍

// Also need info on added events and event processing..?
Within Lisk core v4 an updated state storage will be used and is covered further below.

Finally, a new event mechanism has been introduced designed to emit events from the application domain during the block processing.
These events are included in a sparse Merkle tree, as leaf nodes.
Hence, the root of the SPM being the event root, is added as a new property to block headers.
Using the event root, it is possible to provide inclusion or non-inclusion proofs for events, proving whether an event was emitted during the block processing.

==== Module State Store

Within the chain each module that is registered defines its own state and the possible state transitions.

> For example, this could be the transactions defined within the module or the reducers that can be called by other modules.

Reviewer 2: Reducer is old terminology, I think we say "methods".

This new state architecture is now substantially different, as previously, the state of a chain was organized per account rather than per module.
For example, a user's balance would be stored together with all the other properties related to that specific user.

> Alternatively, with the new state model, the balance of a user is stored in the token module state and is separated from all other properties.

Author: Done 👍

> In addition, the chain also maintains a *global state store*, which can be determined as a collection of key-value pairs defining the state of the blockchain.

Reviewer 2: I would remove "In addition" and "also", since the state store introduced in previous paragraph is a part of the global state store.

Author: Good point...now done 👍

// This is achieved by imposing a specific format for keys in the global state store.
// Hence, each key is given by the concatenation of the module store prefix, a substore prefix, and a store key.
// A module store can be defined as the collection of key-value pairs whose keys share the same module store prefix (which identifies the specific module store).

// Separating the state store into several key-value maps allows us to logically compartmentalize each module, following the same mantra behind our chain architecture, each module defines its part of the state and its own state transitions.

// - *Module State* The key-value pairs stored in the map of the module.
// For example, the user balance, and the escrow accounts are stored in the token module.
// - *Module state transactions*: The transactions defined in a module (for example, the token transfer transaction in the token module), as well as the logic executed with every block or transactions, such as the reward assigned to the generator after a block has been processed.

> The state tree is the sparse Merkle tree built on top of the state store.

Reviewer 2: Would be nice to add a reference to the LIP about SMTs: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0039.md.

Author: Good point...now done 👍

To provide a high level overview, the main functionalities are listed below:

* The possibility to connect to a subset of peers in the Lisk mainchain's P2P network.
* To synchronize with the Lisk blockchain including requesting, forwarding and processing of the blocks, which also contain the transactions.
// => Lisk Core node stores all current account balances and transactions
* To maintain the transaction pool, which might contain a subset of unconfirmed transactions.
* To request and forward the unconfirmed transactions.
* To possibly generate new blocks when running a validator node.

Furthermore, Lisk Core nodes are able to store all current addresses, balances, and transactions.

With the latest version of Lisk Core, there will be new configurable settings and the modules described in the <<Modules>> sub-section will also be used.

NOTE: To migrate from Lisk Core v3 to v4 please follow the migration process as covered in the xref:{migration}[migration guide].

==== Migration overview

> The Lisk SDK v6 has introduced some new configurable settings, including certain constants that need to be specified for each chain, which must also be specified in Lisk Core v4.

Reviewer: I think it might be nice to also attach a hyperlink to `Lisk SDK v6` in this statement.

A brief overview of the migration process from Lisk Core v3 to Lisk Core v4 is depicted graphically in the illustration below in Figure 1.

.Migration process overview
image::migration-v3-v4.png[align=center]

In Figure 1 above, the blocks in pink are generated by the Lisk Core v3 nodes, including the state snapshot.
The snapshot block is shown in green, and is generated by the xref:{url_lisk_migrator}[migrator tool].
Finally, the blocks in yellow are generated by the Lisk Core v4 nodes post migration.

=== Modules

> Within Lisk Core v4, the following modules will be used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within Lisk Core v4, the following modules will be registered and used in the specified order:
```
Can we please adhere to the module order as stated [here](https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0063.md#modules)?

* Interoperability
- The Interoperability module provides basic functionalities to transmit information between interoperable chains in the Lisk ecosystem using xref:{url_cross_chain}[cross-chain messages].
In addition, it also supports / defines the chain lifecycle.
* Token
- This module allows any chain in the ecosystem to handle and transfer tokens in a coherent, secure, and controlled manner.
Furthermore, the token module also handles cross-chain token transfers.
* Legacy
- The Legacy module maintains all accounts on the Lisk mainchain that received balance transfers to their address in the old 8-byte format, and for which no public key is associated.
The Legacy module also implements a command allowing delegates without a BLS key to register one.
* Dynamic Block Rewards Module
- The Dynamic Block Rewards module is responsible for providing the base reward system for the Lisk blockchain according to the delegate weight.
It computes the block rewards according to the delegate weight for active delegates, and includes specific logic for rewarding the standby validators.
More details on this can be found here in xref:{url_lip_xx}[LIP 00XX].

> // Awaiting feedback from Vikas on the LIP number.

Reviewer: Relevant LIP: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0071.md

Also, it might be add a line stating that the rewards will now be automatically shared with LIP: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0070.md

There are over 600 nodes around the world that are maintained by individuals, and these nodes communicate with the network.
For example, by broadcasting and receiving blocks or transactions from their peers.

> In addition, Lisk nodes are also required to generate/add new blocks to the blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, Lisk Core nodes are also required to generate/add new blocks to the blockchain.
```

=== Who should operate a node?

If you fall under one of the following categories listed below, then it is recommended to set up your own node:

* *Exchanges* and other services that rely on a stable API interface to the network.

> * *Delegates* who have registered as a delegate and would like to actively generate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Delegates* who have registered as a delegate and would like to actively generate new blocks.
```

This is especially important when running an exchange and implementing LSK tokens.
- To create your own snapshots of the blockchain.
- To create transactions and send them to the network.
- To have the option to xref:{url_config_block_generation}[generate] new blocks, (assuming you are an active validator).
- To acquire full control in order to xref:{url_config}[configure] the node to your specific requirements.

> NOTE: To learn how to set up a node, please see the xref:{url_getting_started}[NPM setup] page.

Reviewer: Should we not refer to a page that lists all sorts of setup mechanisms we support?

The Lisk Core can be connected to different networks.
Please be aware that there are two key accessible public networks existing which are entirely independent of each other.
These networks are described below.
//Note: ChainIDs & ports could be further updated according to Manu.

.Public networks of Lisk
[cols="1h,1m,1m",options="header"]
|===

> | Network | Port (default) | Network Identifier

Reviewer 2: Network identifier and Chain ID are different notions. You can have different chains in different networks (e.g. mainchain in Mainnet and Testnet, NFT-marketplace chain in Mainnet and Testnet). So I think we should still mention Net IDs.

Maybe additionally we can say that the chain ID of the mainchain is `0x00000000`.

Author: OK, as discussed the original table has been inserted, together with an additional table showing the chain ID.
@sameersubudhi  Could you please confirm if the Network Identifiers are still the same..?

Reviewer: We actually do not expose the network identifiers anymore. The network can be identified based on the chainID.
The most significant byte within the chainID can be used to determine the network. And, the remaining 3 bytes can be used to determine the chain. You can refer the following table for network identification and the subsequent table takes the Lisk mainchain as example:

| Network        | Network identifier |
| ------------- | ----------------- |
| mainnet         | 00                          |
| testnet           | 01                          |
| betanet          | 02                         |
| alphanet        | 03                         |
| devnet           | 04                         |

**Example**: The chainID for the Lisk mainchain
| Network        | Lisk mainchain chainID |
| ------------- | ---------------------- |
| mainnet         | 00000000                     |
| testnet           | 01000000                     |
| betanet          | 02000000                     |
| alphanet        | 03000000                     |
| devnet           | 04000000                     |

Author: Great! Many thanks, Sameer.. I will adapt the changes to reflect this accordingly 👍

Therefore, network identifiers (nethash), are not exposed anymore, and the network can be determined based on the `chainID`.
Chain identifiers are 4-byte values, and the first byte is set to the `CHAIN_ID_PREFIX_MAINNET` for chains running in the mainnet network, and hence to the `CHAIN_ID_PREFIX_TESTNET` for chains running in the testnet network.
The most significant byte within the `chainID` is the first byte which is used to determine the network, and the remaining 3 bytes are used to determine the chain.

.Public networks of Lisk
[cols="1h,1m",options="header"]
|===
| Network | Port (default)

| Mainnet
| `8001`

| Testnet
| `7001`

|===

// Used to identify the chains exchanging the cross-chain messages, the chainID can be seen below:

// cols="1h,1m",options="header"]
// |===
// | Network | Lisk chainID

// | Mainnet
// | 00000000
// |Testnet
// | 01000000

[cols="1h,1m,1m,1m" options="header"]
|===
| Network | Name | Type | ChainID Prefix

|Mainnet
| `CHAIN_ID_PREFIX_MAINNET`
| bytes
| 0x00

|Testnet
| `CHAIN_ID_PREFIX_TESTNET`
|bytes
| 0x01

|===

=== Mainnet

The Mainnet is where the true Lisk economy exists.

> Within this network the Lisk users can transfer LSK tokens from one account to another, register accounts as delegates; and vote for other validators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within this network the Lisk users can transfer LSK tokens from one account to another, register accounts as delegates, and vote for other validators.
```
---
Additionally, the following line (on L288) could also be updated:
Current statement:
```
To start using the Testnet, please download your free LSK Testnet from the {url_faucet_testnet}[Testnet faucet^].
```

Suggestion:
```
To start using the Testnet, please claim your free LSK tokens from the {url_faucet_testnet}[Testnet faucet^].
```

Also, the data in the APIs table for `Reference` column on L310 seems to be broken. Please check.

The Lisk Core can be connected to different networks.
Please be aware that there are two key accessible public networks existing which are entirely independent of each other.
These networks are covered below.
//Note: ChainIDs & ports could be further updated according to Manu.

==== Chain Identifiers

> The usage of the chain identifiers (previously known as network identifiers), which are currently used for transaction and block header signatures, to arbitrary signatures; are able to prevents replay attacks and the re-usage of signatures.

Reviewer 2: The sentence reads weird, I would reformulate somehow.

I would also add that chain identifiers are used in interoperability protocol to distinguish between different blockchain running in the ecosystem (in fact, I would say this is the main task of chain IDs).

The Lisk Core can be connected to different networks.
Please be aware that there are two key accessible public networks existing which are entirely independent of each other.
These networks are covered below in this section.
//Note: ChainIDs & ports could be further updated according to Manu.

==== Chain Identifiers

> The chain identifiers (previously known as network identifiers), are mainly used within the interoperability protocol in order to distinguish between different blockchains running in the ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The chain identifiers (synonymous to, the previously known, network identifiers), are mainly used within the interoperability protocol in order to distinguish between different blockchains running in the ecosystem.
```

In addition, they are also used for transaction, block header, and arbitrary signatures, whereby they are able to prevent replay attacks and the re-usage of signatures.
More information on chain identifiers can be found in here in xref:{url_lip37}[LIP 37].

> Therefore, network identifiers (nethash), are not exposed anymore, and the network can be determined based on the `chainID`.

Reviewer: I'm unsure if this statement is factually correct. This could be confirmed with Shu or someone else from the research team.

Chain identifiers are 4-byte values, and the first byte is set to the `CHAIN_ID_PREFIX_MAINNET` for chains running in the mainnet network, and hence to the `CHAIN_ID_PREFIX_TESTNET` for chains running in the testnet network.
The most significant byte within the `chainID` is the first byte which is used to determine the network, and the remaining 3 bytes are used to determine the chain.

.Public networks of Lisk
[cols="1h,1m",options="header"]
|===
| Network | Port (default)

| Mainnet
| `8001`

| Testnet
| `7001`

|===

// Used to identify the chains exchanging the cross-chain messages, the chainID can be seen below:

// cols="1h,1m",options="header"]
// |===
// | Network | Lisk chainID

// | Mainnet
// | 00000000
// |Testnet
// | 01000000

[cols="1h,1m,1m,1m" options="header"]
|===

> | Network | Name | Type | Value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Network | Name | Type | ChainID Prefix
```

|===

The Lisk API documentation can be found xref:{url_lisk_api}[here].

== Token

> The native token for the Lisk Mainnet is the *LSK*.

Reviewer 2: A comment about custom modules section below: I think you can just remove it as now this is not a custom module but a part of the module suite running on the mainchain. And you have already mentioned this above :)

Author: OK, it is now removed 👍

Reviewer 2: I still don't understand why we mention anything about tokens and LSK Reclaim command here. I think, this belongs to a different doc page.
